## WELCOME TO GISWATER CONTRIBUTORS GUIDE-QGIS PLUGIN

Thank you for investing your time in contributing to our project! Any contribution you make will be reflected on https://github.com/Giswater/ repos. As well as License is GNU-GPL3 the contributions need to be made under same License, it means that it applies the inbound=outbound approach.<br>

In this guide you will get an overview of the contribution workflow from opening an issue, creating a PR, reviewing, and merging the PR.<br>

You can find more information about our code of conduct on: https://github.com/Giswater/docs/blob/master/github/pdf/code_of_conduct.pdf

As well as Giswater is developed in Python (qgis plugin) and PL/SQL(PostgreSQL database) there are three main repositories to manage it (QGIS-PLUGIN, DB-MODEL and DOCS). Right now this is the repository for the QGIS-PLUGIN.

## TABLE OF CONTENTS
1- Bug report.<br>
2- Working with issues.<br>
3- Make new code contribution.<br>
4- Contributors list.<br>

## BUG REPORT
If you’re experiencing a problem while working with Giswater, please, report it so our developers can revise and fix it, by submitting the following information and sending an e-mail to bugreport@giswater.org

1. Contact Information: name and e-mail address.<br>
2. Identification of the problem: many times a screenshot is enough.<br>
3. Detail of what happened: if the problem is reproducible, please mention the necessary steps that created it. If the problem is not reproducible (only happened once, or occasionally for no apparent reason) please describe the circumstances in which it occurred and the symptoms observed.<br>
4. Send a screenshot of the project check report.<br>

How to get the project report?.<br>
This report is generated by clicking on the button ‘Check project' on utilities toolbar.<br>
After a few seconds an extensive report for project status is generated within a dialog. Screenshot of this dialog should be sent such that (at least errors & warnings).<br>
More information: https://www.giswater.org/bug-report<br>


## WORKING WITH ISSUES
### Create a new issue:
If you spot a problem with the docs, search if an issue already exists. If a related issue doesn't exist, you can open a new issue using a relevant issue form.<br>

### Solve an issue:
Scan through our existing issues to find one that interests you. You can narrow down the search using labels as filters. See Labels for more information. As a general rule, we don’t assign issues to anyone. If you find an issue to work on, you are welcome to open a PR with a fix.<br>

## MAKE NEW CODE CONTRIBUTION
To get an overview of the project, read the README. Here are some resources to help you get started with open source contributions.<br>

### Finding ways to contribute with project:
- Set up Git.<br>
- GitHub flow.<br>
- Collaborating with pull requests.<br>
- Getting started.<br>
- To navigate our codebase with confidence, see the introduction to working in the docs repository.<br>

### Choose te repo:
To make new code you need to choose what repo are you looking for:<br>
Use the https://github.com/Giswater/docs repository to work with DOCS<br>
Use the https://github.com/Giswater/giswater_qgis_plugin repository to work with PYTHON QGIS PLUGIN.<br>
Use the https://github.com/Giswater/giswater_dbmodel repository to work with DATABASE MODEL.<br>
Rest of repositories are no significant. Some of them they are deprecated or some of them are not used yet.


### Make changes locally:
1- Install Git LFS.<br>
2- Fork the repository.<br>
3- Using GitHub Desktop.<br>
4- Getting started with GitHub Desktop will guide you through setting up Desktop.<br>
5- Once Desktop is set up, you can use it to fork the repo!<br>
6- Using the command line: Fork the repo so that you can make your changes without affecting the original project until you're ready to merge them.
7- Create a working branch and start with your changes!<br>
8- Commit your update.<br>
9- Commit the changes once you are happy with them. See Atom's contributing guide to know how to use emoji for commit messages.<br>
10- Once your changes are ready, don't forget to self-review to speed up the review process.<br>

### Create Pull Request:
When you're finished with the changes, create a pull request, also known as a PR.<br>
Fill the "Ready for review" template so that we can review your PR. This template helps reviewers understand your changes as well as the purpose of your pull request. Don't forget to link PR to issue if you are solving one.<br>
Enable the checkbox to allow maintainer edits so the branch can be updated for a merge. Once you submit your PR, a team member will review your proposal. We may ask questions or request for additional information.<br>
We may ask for changes to be made before a PR can be merged, either using suggested changes or pull request comments.<br>
As you update your PR and apply changes, mark each conversation as resolved. Once your PR is merged, your contributions will be publicly visible on the GitHub.<br>

## CONTRIBUTORS LIST
Nicole Aguiar, Frelance GIS consultant.<br>
Jordi Blanch, Stagier on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Guillem Esteve, Stagier on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Elies Bertran, Stagier on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Ivan Moreno, Stagier on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Eter Gorgiladze, Stagier on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Luigi Pirelli, Freelance GIS developer.<br>
Vicente Medina, Barcelona Tech university.<br>
Xavier Calatrava, Aigües de Blanes, SA.<br>
Diego Guedes, SANEAGO.<br>
Pablo Marques, SANEAGO.<br>
Abel Garcia Juanes, Frelance GIS consultant.<br>
Natasa Cica, GIS developer on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Sergi Muñoz, GIS analyst on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Sergi Maspons, GIS analyst on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
David Erill, Freelance GIS developer.<br>
Nestor Ibáñez, GIS developer on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Edgar Fuste, GIS developer on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Albert Bofill, GIS analyst on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Barbara Rzepka, GIS analyst on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>
Xavier Torret, GIS analyst on BGEO OPEN GIS.<br>

